1) D
Question Type: Detail
In the first paragraph, the author of Passage 1 mentions that A Streetcar Named Desire debuted in 1947, but it does not provide any
additional information about the era. That information does not come until the second paragraph of Passage 1. As such, choice
(D) is correct. In the first paragraph of Passage 1, the author actually provides two critical interpretations of Streetcar. He or she
writes that, "Most have argued (correctly) that the play is about the ways the past haunts our present or (again correctly) that it is
about the ways class and sexuality impact our lives." Because of this sentence, choice (A) is incorrect. In the first paragraph of
Passage 1, the author states that Streetcar "continues to resonate with audiences and readers today despite—or perhaps because
of—its simplistic though layered story." Thus, it does provide an explanation of why modern audiences like the play: the story.
Therefore, choice (B) is incorrect. The first paragraph of Passage 1 provides a synopsis of Streetcar in the middle of the paragraph.
There, the author explains that "a faded Southern belle" loses "her tenuous grip on sanity" due to confrontations with her brother-in-
law. As such, choice (C) is incorrect, and the first paragraph does provide a brief plot synopsis of the play. The author of Passage
1's main argument about Streetcar is presented in the final sentence of paragraph 1. There, he or she writes that the play is "an
allegory for the theater itself." Because of this, paragraph 1 clearly does provide the author's main argument, and choice (E) is
incorrect.

2) C
Question Type: Inference
In paragraph 2 of Passage 1, the author argues that Tennessee Williams sought to "bring the realism of the political theater of the
1930s but without the political (read: socialist) underpinnings" when he wrote A Streetcar Named Desire. This implies
that Streetcar did not have socialist leanings, as Williams would not attempt to write a play without political leanings and then make
sure the play did have socialist leanings. As such, choice (C) is correct. Passage 1 states only that Streetcar was written by
Tennessee Williams and debuted in 1947. It does not state that the play was Williams' first play though, as it does not provide much
information about Williams' life. Because of this, choice (A) is incorrect. Passage 1 states only that Streetcar "resonates with
audiences and readers today." This implies that the play has power both on stage and in print, but it does not suggest that the play
is better on stage than in print. Therefore, choice (B) is incorrect. The third paragraph of Passage 1 describes Blanche as an
"unrealistic character" who is melodramatic. This makes it clear that aspects of Streetcar are melodramatic, making choice (D)
incorrect. Passage 1 does not mention Marlon Brando at all. In fact, it is Passage 2 that argues that Streetcar was more successful
because of Brando's inclusion. As such, choice (E) is incorrect.

3) A
Question Type: Detail
To answer this detail question, look for the part of Passage 1 that describes Blanche as she appears on stage. This occurs in
paragraph 3. There, the author states that Blanche "speak theatrically, acts arger than life on stage, and uses floral language and
heightened mannerisms." This makes it clear that she is overdramatic and theatrical. The paragraph also states that Williams added
her "to make his point that melodrama was flawed." This makes it clear that Blanche is intentionally overdramatic and theatrical,
making choice (A) correct. The first passage states that A Streetcar Named Desire takes place in New Orleans and that Blanche
arrives there at the beginning of the play. It does not, however, imply that Blanche has never been to New Orleans before the play.
Because of this, choice (B) is incorrect. The first paragraph of Passage 1 makes it clear that Stanley is married to Blanche's sister,
as he is Blanche's "brutish brother-in-law." Thus, choice (C) is incorrect. The third paragraph of Passage 1 states that "Blanche is a
character not to be trusted" because "she lies about everything." Thus, she is not brutally honest or frank, and choice (D) is
incorrect. In the third paragraph of Passage 1, the author writes that Blanche is the one character in Streetcar who is not rooted in
realism. Instead, she is "an equally unrealistic character" who ultimately ends up in an insane asylum. As such, choice (E) is
incorrect

4) E
Question Type: Global
In Passage 2, the author introduces Marlon Brando as "the actor who rose to fame playing Stanley Kowalski." This suggests that the
role earned Marlon Brando great fame and supports option (I). In Passage 2, the author also writes that the role of Stanley in print
"is a monster and a beast without any redeeming qualities" but that Brando "imagined the character as having a soft underbelly,
rooted in his own sorrow, insecurities, and soulful complexity." All of this suggests that Brando added nuance and complexity to the
part, supporting option (II). At the end of Passage 2, the author writes that A Streetcar Named Desire is "excellent and memorable"
but that "it is Brando's interpretation of [Stanley] that makes the play indelible," or completely unforgettable. Thus, he or she argues
that Brando makes the play a classic, supporting option (III). Therefore (E) is correct.

5) C
Question Type: Global
The first passage presents three interpretations of the play: one from critics who have focused on the play's theme of past and
present, one from those who have instead focused on sex and class in the play, and one from the author himself or herself that the
play is "an allegory for the theater itself." The second passage presents two other interpretations, one based on reading the play and
one based on Marlon Brando's interpretation of the male lead. The author of Passage 2 argues that Brando made the play more
complex, and states that the play "would still have a deep meaning" without Brando but "becomes even more profound" with his
interpretation. Thus, both authors agree that the play really has more than one true meaning, making choice (C) correct. Neither
passage mentions Streetcar blowing away audiences in New York. Instead, they both only imply that the play was a huge success
without stating where. As such, choice (A) is incorrect. Only Passage 1 suggests that Tennessee Williams wrote Streetcar as way of
criticizing melodrama, so there is no proof that the author of Passage 2 would agree with that statement. Because of this,
choice (B) is incorrect. Neither passage argues that Streetcar only resonates with audiences when it is on stage. In fact, both imply
that the play is still powerful even when read. Because of this, choice (D) is incorrect. Though Passage 1 does refer to Stanley as a
brute monster, Passage 2 argues that an interpretation of him sees him as being more complex and not purely brutish. Because of
this, choice (E) is incorrect, as there is no indication that both authors would agree that Stanley is purely a brute.

https://englishforeveryone.org/PDFs/12_A_Streetcar_Named_Desire_Free_Sample.pdf